Camel 4 general migrate blog (#1071)
apache/camel-website: content/blog/2023/10/migrate4/index.md

---
title: "Migrating to Apache Camel 4"
date: 2023-10-10
authors: [davsclaus]
categories: ["Howtos"]
preview: Guidelines for migrating to Apache Camel 4
---

Apache Camel 4 was released a few months back. This blog post is a general guideline for Camel users
that are seeking information how to migrate from Camel 2 or 3.

> We plan to post more blog posts in the future with more specific details on migrating, such as migrating from Camel Karaf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We plan to post more blog posts in the future with specific details on migrating, such as migrating from Camel Karaf
```

> We plan to post more blog posts in the future with more specific details on migrating, such as migrating from Camel Karaf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We plan to launch a series of blog posts in the near future with more specific details on migrating, such as migrating from Camel Karaf
```

to Camel 4 on Spring Boot or Quarkus. 

> Apache Camel 4.0 is based on the Camel 3.20.0 release. In other words, after the 3.20.0 release, we shifted the `main`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Camel 4.0 is a fork of Camel 3.20. In other words, after the 3.20.0 release, we shifted the `main`
```

code branch to be Camel 4. This affects how to migrate to Camel 4, as you essentially need to migrate to Camel 3.20 first.
And then afterward you can migrate to Camel 4.x.

Camel 4 requirements:

- Java 17 or 21 (Official Java 21 support is planned for Camel 4.2)
- Spring Boot 3
- Quarkus 3
- Jakarta EE APIs

Migration Plan:

1. Migrate from Camel 2.x to 3.0 (only relevant for Camel 2 users)
2. Upgrade from Camel 3.x to 3.20
3. Migrate from Camel 3.20 to 4.0
4. Upgrade from 4.0.x to 4.x

You can find more details in the [migration and upgrade guides](/manual/migration-and-upgrade.html).

We anticipate the migration effort for most end users from Camel 3 to 4 is a _minor effort_, as Camel 4

> was a release lead by Spring Boot 3, Quarkus 3, and `javax` -> `jakarta` API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
was a release led by Spring Boot 3, Quarkus 3, and Jakarta EE migration. 
```

> was a release led by Spring Boot 3, Quarkus 3, and Jakarta EE migration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
was a release led by Spring Boot 3, Quarkus 3, and the Jakarta EE migration. 
```

> was a release lead by Spring Boot 3, Quarkus 3, and `javax` -> `jakarta` API. 

Reviewer: Jakarta EE migration instead of "`javax` -> `jakarta` API"

> There are Camel components that has been removed in Camel 4 as they were either deprecated in v3, or they do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are Camel components that have been removed in Camel 4 as they were either deprecated in v3, or they do
```

> not support Jakarta EE, or their project is no longer active. You can find a list of components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not support Jakarta EE, or their underlying project is no longer active. You can find a list of components
```

> that has been removed (with suggestion for new component to use) in the [camel 4 migration guide](manual/camel-4-migration-guide.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that have been removed (with suggestions for new components to use) in the [camel 4 migration guide](manual/camel-4-migration-guide.html).
```

In terms of backward compatibility, then Camel 4 is mostly compatible with regular Camel applications.

> However, if you are using some of the more advanced features and other plugins in Camel, then migrating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you are using some advanced features and other plugins in Camel, then migrating
```

Not sure what you mean by "other plugins in Camel"
